Yesterday, we saw how this esophagus developed.
It is an articulation, ultimately, between the mind and
the heart.
It's my aorta that holds the system.
Further out, it's my amniotic cavity pushing.
And between the two, I have the brain that guides and I have my heart that becomes a fulcrum.
fulcrum.
We had studied the influence of the applicature of the flexion movement of the embryo at
the head level.
we will study the influence of the applicature
at the trunk level.
Same principle,
I have this great applicature
and we will see that at the trunk level, it will
cause quite a few
digestive phenomena to appear.
And one of the first
digestive phenomena we will study,
we have already studied a little bit
thyroid, parathyroid, etc.
But this time, we will study
the movement of lung development
which can be considered as a...
A quick reminder of this flexion movement.
You see the amniotic cavity, the vitelline cavity, the heart.
And we will see this movement of the amniotic cavity organized by this growth
here.
And we see the appearance here, you see, of this anterior digestive tube
with small diverticula.
And we will gradually begin to see that it will continue.
And in this space, a pulmonary zone will be outlined.
pulmonary, a pure digestive zone, etc., which we will study.
We see here the pulmonary mouths, for example, the appearance of a field
of aspiration.
We can clearly see here that the main engine will be my aorta, it is in this coiling
that
I have both the heart, the diaphragm that will position itself, and it will create a small
posterior space.
First, the esophagus, we see again this development movement of my aorta.
esophagus which corresponds to the development of my pharyngeal intestine, we can clearly see
how
it develops and it is linked to these flexion movements, the esophagus that will develop
here between the part of my lungs and my stomach
here and we also see here the intestine
which is open at the beginning and these aortas that come to close in fact all the
lumen
anterior and which come to form on a plane
The closure of my linea alba, the bringing together of my left side and my right side
towards the front
is actually organized by the development of my tube backwards
which explodes in its development and my two aortas that come together on my median line
and which bring all the anterior material forward
to close.
It's a dynamic between my neural tube which is in my hand
influenced by my notochord, and the lateral organization of my fluid fields
and the speed
of differential growth which corresponds to the algorithm of a differential growth rate
that we have already received through polarity.
A small thing, the esophagus develops from the segment of the primitive intestine,
included between the respiratory diverticulum and the dilation of the stomach.
What is important is that there is an endoblastic part, which is the internal technique.
internal.
and a surrounding mesenchyme, which is a connective tissue, both muscular
and fibrous.
There is a mixture of the two.
The purely epithelial part is the internal part,
and around it, there is a tissue that corresponds to my pull, which I am
the esophagus.
A part that is quite, a bit purely muscular,
a part that is a little more fibrous, and a part that is...
It has a small possibility of adaptability in relation
to its environment.
But many problems at the junction of my esophagus are related to its relationship with its diaphragm, and there are often disturbances at this level that can lead to many ENT problems. So not only will I not have ENT problems of a purely immune type, or problems with a gastric type reflux. We have found pepsin, we have found hydrochloric acid in the middle ear of some children. So problems like otitis, ENT, rhinitis, etc. can actually be linked to reflux. This is more frequent than what we do because reflux does not always cause heartburn. Because that's heartburn, it's really a liquid type reflux, but there are many refluxes that are gaseous type refluxes. These are forms of gas, gas molecules that rise up that we feel. It is simply linked to a problem of dysfunction at the articulation between the esophagus and the stomach at the diaphragmatic junction.
It is the junction that is related to the fibers of Juwara and
related to the space.
peri-esophageal, which is an adaptive space, and from this very important relationship, the
the
hole in the diaphragm, which was really a place where you have to learn to
heal,
learn to release, learn to treat, because when you have a dysfunction
at the esophagus level, it blocks the quality, it blocks the opening of your diaphragm.
And Steele said, if your diaphragm is not free, the door to your life is not free.
All this vagal plexus which is very very important.
You have the esophagus, you have the trachea and you have in
front the aorta.
At E3, at what we call the equilibrium of my rhythmic zone.
That means that in this area, I have a common fascia, a posterior mesentery,
posterior,
a peritoneal fibrous tissue that holds them together
and which inserts on...
the mid-dorsal area around D3, D4.
And it's an adaptability zone.
Esophagus by my swallowing,
trachea by my breathing,
aorta by the movement of the heart.
100,000 times, 23,000 times, 4,000 times in a day.
Imagine the rhythmic zone here.
There are many rhythms.
There's the adrenal rhythm, there's the thyroid rhythm.
there are the rhythms of the pancreas, there are the rhythms of your heart, there are the rhythms of your digestion, etc.
I have not only a direct continuity here with my aortic system,
but I have a fiber that continues here, which is called the suspensory ligament of the fourth
portion of the duodenum,
which can open a very important area at the celiac trunk.
And I remind you that this celiac trunk is very very important.
for all the vascularization of your entire peritoneal part.
Sub-diaphragmatic, I have everything that will give the system for irrigation
both of my liver and my stomach system.
But therefore it is a very very important crossroads on a vascular level,
in relation to this lemniscus that we will find here.
And my esophagus can intervene in several portions at the level of this diamond.
of this transpharyngeal section of an esophagus, important.
We'll go through all the layers a bit,
but we'll see them a bit later.
This now brings us to the study of the lungs.